for able Muslims the annual pilgrimage
to the cabba in Mecca Islam's holiest
site is mandatory at least once in their
lives so as Mahmud and FAA jarun piece
together what is left of their home in
Gaza they also Express grief and regret
about being unable to perform
hjj unfortunately we lost our house as
you can see there is destruction and
Devastation and then came the closure of
the border and we can't go to Hajj it
was two blows in one go the pain of the
war the pain of the destruction the pain
of The Siege and the pain of not being
able to go to
Hajj Palestinians living in Gaza face
enormous hurdles if they try to travel
anywhere after registering their names
with Israeli authorities every year for
two decades they were finally granted
permission they sold everything of value
to pay for the trip then the war
happened and what they describe as a
lifelong dream nearly realized Slipped
Away the Rafa border is very important
for us from the day it was shut our
hopes were lost we were very upset
because there are those who are sick and
injured and those who are students it
closed everything in their face and the
same goes for the
pilgrims they even want to deny us our
worship Den I asked the Hajj I don't
know who we should complain to or cry to
or speak to who should we go to we ask
God to relieve us and for them to open
the
Border Mahmud and Fatima say they were
looking forward to Hajj as a chance to
feel connected to other Muslims from
around the world unable to go and with
what is happening in Gaza they say they
feel more isolated than ever Zan basravi
Al
jazer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer